Add DevSecOps on Azure using Terraform and Python (#22)
RaphHaddad/blog: content/post/devsecops-azure-terraform-python.md

---
title: 'DevSecOps on Azure using Terraform and Python'
date: 2021-02-28T00:00:00.001+11:00
draft: false
tags : [azure devops, azure cloud, devops]
---

This post will demonstrate how to create a segregated Azure Cloud environment (a
resource group and service
connection from Azure DevOps) that can be used by development teams to provision their own infrastructure and
deploy their compiled code. All in an automated and secure manner.

Teams can then setup their own release pipelines using the provisioned resource
group and service connection. The service connection created will only have
permission to a single resource group within Azure.

> The reference code for this post is available on this [GitHub repository](https://github.com/RaphHaddad/devsecops-azure-terraform-python).

Reviewer: This feels out of order to me. You talk about what the reader will get out of it, which is good (ideally a heading saying something like "what you will learn" or similar. I'd place the "The reference for this code ...." a bit lower and group the "Specifically, this post will...." together with the above or even put the link to the reference coe right at the top.

Author: Will fix

Author: resolving with commit 6be821095e86f3a686b2f9e733addc2b3b94bf3f

Specifically, this post will demonstrate:

- How to provision a resource group for an application or service; and
- How to create a service connection from Azure DevOps to Azure Cloud
with [contributor](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/role-based-access-control/built-in-roles#contributor) access to that
  resource group.

The above will be done with [Terraform](https://www.terraform.io) wrapped in
a [Python](https://www.python.org) script.

## Pre-prerequisites and Setup

In order to automate the above process Terraform has two providers: an [Azure RM
provider](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/azurerm/latest) and
an [Azure
DevOps](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/microsoft/azuredevops/latest/docs)
provider. Both of these will be utilised in order to create a resource group
with a service connection.

The first step is authenticating to an Azure DevOps instance and an Azure Cloud
Subscription. To authenticate to Azure Cloud the [Azure
CLI](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/install-azure-cli) is needed.

> 

Reviewer: Azure CLI is one method. You can use powershell as well. I personally prefer, "This post will use Azure CLI as it is a very simple way of deploying to Azure cloud. To authenticate with Azure CLI you......" . Technically you do not need Azure CLI to authenticate, its just one method.

Author: Will fix

Author: @glav, Terraform's documentation only references authentication via the Azure CLI. Powershell is not mentioned. I will add a link to Terraform's documentation for the readers: https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/azurerm/latest/docs/guides/azure_cli

Author: Resolving with commit 6c1b65c92c437bc9567cc99ed486cd3847d3dfa3

```cmd
% az login
The default web browser has been opened at https://login.microsoftonline.com/common/oauth2/authorize. Please continue the login in the web browser. If no web browser is available or if the web browser fails to open, use device code flow with `az login --use-device-code`.
```

> To authenticate into Azure DevOps. A [Personal Access Token (PAT)](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/organizations/accounts/use-personal-access-tokens-to-authenticate?view=azure-devops&tabs=preview-page) is needed with

Reviewer: I think you meant a comma after "Azure Devops" not a full stop.

Author: will fix
```suggestion
To authenticate into Azure DevOps, A [Personal Access Token (PAT)](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/organizations/accounts/use-personal-access-tokens-to-authenticate?view=azure-devops&tabs=preview-page) is needed with
```

the scope *Read, query, & manage* on *Service Connections*. After generating the
PAT, Terraform requires certain environment variables to be set:

```cmd
% export AZDO_PERSONAL_ACCESS_TOKEN={a-secure-access-token}
% export AZDO_ORG_SERVICE_URL=https://dev.azure.com/{a-secure-org}
```

## Initialising Terraform

Terraform relies on a state file to perform resource deployments, for the
purposes of this post, local system state will be used. For production
work-loads [remote state](https://www.terraform.io/docs/language/state/index.html) should be used.

> The Python script [setup-environment.py](https://github.com/RaphHaddad/devsecops-azure-terraform-python/blob/107fe97dbd6674d1200436922b0b7d87328a480b/setup-environment.py#L13-L22), initialises Terraform state *dynamically* by assigning a

Reviewer: Any reason you are using python? It is not bad, but explaining why in this instance might be useful, perhaps a little earlier in the piece

Author: because Microsoft likes Linux now and Python is included natively in linux. I will re-arrange.

Author: Actually @glav, I'm not going to justify the usage of Python, because I'd feel I have to justify Terraform. Perhaps a justification of technology choice of these environments is for another blog post (I don't think I will do it justice).

```

Terraform is able to dynamically change state via the `-backend-config` flag.

So, if the script is ran twice with two different resource groups like the below
snippet:

```cmd
% ./setup-environment.py --resource-group-name "a-new-resource-group" --azure-devops-project-name main
% ./setup-environment.py --resource-group-name "a-new-resource-group-2" --azure-devops-project-name main
```

Two folders will be created in the working directory:
`.terraform-state-a-new-resource-group` and
`.terraform-state-a-new-resource-group-2`. Both of which have a `tfstate` file.

This pattern can be achieved for any Terraform remote backend and will allow the
executor to use the same Terraform templates to create multiple instances of the
resources declared in the Terraform template.
*Note* it is important to treat Terraform state files as sensitive data
(passwords, tokens). See this [Terraform page](https://www.terraform.io/docs/language/state/sensitive-data.html?_ga=2.252783049.1925722553.1613943599-1447805869.1611735730#recommendations) for more information.

> ## Creating the Service Principle

Reviewer: "Principal" not principle.

I am a "Principal consultant" vs "I have a principle of never eating Yoghurt". Different meanings.

Reviewer: See https://adamtheautomator.com/azure-service-principal/

Reviewer: I see you have used that spelling quite a bit - prolly do a big search and replace

Author: Wow big error...will fix thanks Glav

Author: Fixed

The resource used to generate this is `random_password`. A snippet of the code is
shown below and the full code is available [on GitHub](https://github.com/RaphHaddad/devsecops-azure-terraform-python/blob/107fe97dbd6674d1200436922b0b7d87328a480b/azure-cloud.tf#L12-L31).

```hcl
resource "azuread_service_principal" "service-principle" {
  application_id               = azuread_application.ad-application.application_id
}

resource "azuread_service_principal_password" "service-principle-password" {
  service_principal_id = azuread_service_principal.service-principle.id
  description          = "Managed by Terraform"
  value                = random_password.service-principle-password.result
  end_date             = "2099-01-01T01:02:03Z"
}

resource "random_password" "service-principle-password" {
  length           = 16
  special          = true
  override_special = "_%@"
}
```

## Creating the Resource Group

The new resource group needs to be declared with the Terraform resource type `azurerm_role_assignment`
with `Contributor` access given to the previously declared [service principle](#creating-the-service-principle). The

> snippet of the code is show below and the full code is available [on GitHub](https://github.com/RaphHaddad/devsecops-azure-terraform-python/blob/107fe97dbd6674d1200436922b0b7d87328a480b/azure-cloud.tf#L1-L10)

Reviewer: shown

Author: Will fix
```suggestion
snippet of the code is shown below and the full code is available [on GitHub](https://github.com/RaphHaddad/devsecops-azure-terraform-python/blob/107fe97dbd6674d1200436922b0b7d87328a480b/azure-cloud.tf#L1-L10)
```

provision the service connection on Azure DevOps. The
snippet of the code is show below and the full code is available [on GitHub](https://github.com/RaphHaddad/devsecops-azure-terraform-python/blob/main/azure-devops.tf)

```hcl
resource "azuredevops_serviceendpoint_azurerm" "serviceendpoint-azure" {
  project_id            = data.azuredevops_project.project.id
  service_endpoint_name = "${var.resource-group-name}-azure-service-connection"
  description = "Managed by Terraform" 
  credentials {
    serviceprincipalid  = azuread_service_principal.service-principle.id
    serviceprincipalkey = random_password.service-principle-password.result
  }
  azurerm_spn_tenantid      = data.azurerm_subscription.current.tenant_id
  azurerm_subscription_id   = data.azurerm_subscription.current.subscription_id
  azurerm_subscription_name = data.azurerm_subscription.current.display_name
}
```

## Conclusion

The above setup creates a resource group and a service principle with
`Contributor` access to that resource group. It also creates a service
connection from Azure DevOps that uses the provisioned service principle that
can then be used in

> release pipelines.

Reviewer: While this is technically true, what benefit is it. As in, you can now not only automate your resource creation but also automate the creation of your automated pipeline to create resources which is another level of automation again and allows good management, particularly where automation and governance is strictly required or something like that

Author: Resolved with 2ec93a1503d245799acb09db2b7f622f7bed60d5

CLI](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/install-azure-cli) is needed.

```cmd
% az login
The default web browser has been opened at https://login.microsoftonline.com/common/oauth2/authorize. Please continue the login in the web browser. If no web browser is available or if the web browser fails to open, use device code flow with `az login --use-device-code`.
```

There are several other ways to authenticate to Azure Cloud
and they are listed on the [Terraform website](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/azurerm/latest/docs/guides/azure_cli).

To authenticate into Azure DevOps, A [Personal Access Token (PAT)](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/organizations/accounts/use-personal-access-tokens-to-authenticate?view=azure-devops&tabs=preview-page) is needed with
the scope *Read, query, & manage* on *Service Connections*. After generating the
PAT, Terraform requires certain environment variables to be set:

```cmd
% export AZDO_PERSONAL_ACCESS_TOKEN={a-secure-access-token}
% export AZDO_ORG_SERVICE_URL=https://dev.azure.com/{a-secure-org}
```

## Initialising Terraform

Terraform relies on a state file to perform resource deployments, for the

> purposes of this post, local system state will be used. For production

Reviewer: Just a slight grammatical change. The 2 comma's read a little wrong. I'd reword:
"Terraform relies on a state file to perform resource deployments. For the purposes of this post and to keep things simple, local system state will be used. "

Author: Will fix

}
```

## Conclusion

The above setup creates a resource group and a service principal with
`Contributor` access to that resource group. It also creates a service
connection from Azure DevOps that uses the provisioned service principal that
can then be used in
[Azure Release pipelines](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/pipelines/release/?view=azure-devops). This means that this service connection can be used by Azure
DevOps pipelines to automate the deployments of resources and compiled code into
the provisioned resource group ensuring an automated, isolated, and secure release
process into Azure Cloud.

If the script is run as follows:

```cmd
% ./setup-environment.py --resource-group-name "an-example-resource-group" --azure-devops-project-name main
...
...
...
Apply complete! Resources: 7 added, 0 changed, 0 destroyed.
```

The result would be a resource group `an-example-resource-group` provisioned on Azure Cloud with
the service principal `an-example-resource-group-spn` having `Contributor`
access to that resource group.

![Resource Groups Provisioned with Terraform](/images/resource-group-terraform.png)

> As well as, a service connection from Azure DevOps into Azure Cloud that can be

Reviewer: Remove the comma. A comma acts as a pause, and causes the flow of the paragraph to feel wrong.

Author: Will fix. 
```suggestion
As well as a service connection from Azure DevOps into Azure Cloud that can be
```

used by release pipelines.

![Resource Groups Provisioned with Terraform](/images/service-connection-terraform.png)

> Finally, thank you for reading this post. I hope you got out of it something.

Reviewer: Reword "I hope you got out of it something." to 
"I hope you got something out of it"
or
"I hope this post has been beneficial for you".

Author: Will fix.
```suggestion
Finally, thank you for reading this post. I hope it has been beneficial for you.
```
